# GeneWalk

Class that stores keeps all of the important data for the Gene Walk
algorithm, see Ietswaart, et al. The class can be subsequently used for
to apply the Gene Walk algorithm.

## Usage

``` r
GeneWalk(graph_dt, gene_to_pathway_dt, gene_ids, pathway_ids)
```

## Arguments

- graph_dt:

  A data.table with the graph information. Needs to have the columns
  `"from"`, `"to"` and `"type"`; type must include `"hierarchy"` for the
  pathways, `"interaction"` for interactions and `"part_of"` for
  gene/pathway interactions, and optionally a weight.

- gene_to_pathway_dt:

  A data.table with the gene to pathway information. Needs to have
  `"from"` (gene) and `"to"` (pathway).

- gene_ids:

  String. The "bag of genes" you are testing.

- pathway_ids:

  String. The pathways represented in the network.

## Value

Returns the initialised GeneWalk initialised object for subsequent
analysis.

## Properties

- graph_dt:

  A data.table that contains the initial graph.

- gene_to_pathway_dt:

  A data.table that contains the gene to pathway connections.

- gene_ids:

  The genes represented in your gene walk list.

- pathway_ids:

  The pathways represented in your gene walk network.

- embd:

  The initial embedding matrix generated by node2vec on top of the
  graph.

- permuted_embd:

  A list containing the permuted versions of the graph data for
  subsequent statistical testing.

- stats:

  A data.table containing the information on the statistical testing
  across the permutations.

- params:

  A list in which used parameters will be stored.

## References

Ietswaart, et al., Genome Biol, 2021
